# First Session

_Monday, September 23rd, 2013_

## Synopsis

After [leaving Helm's Hold and traveling to the Mere of Dead Men](https://github.com/half-ogre/the-old-monster-shop#introduction) in search of troglodyte eggs, the orphans found the trailhead leading to the orcish war-pit Dumal marked on their map. The fog over the marsh was so thick that Emory could only see 10 yards ahead, making the trail difficult to follow. After an hour of challenging travel, and signs of troglodytes all around, the adventurous pair arrived at their destination.

The war-pit's entrance was a crude circle of stacked stones fencing in a wide hole leading down into the dark pit below. Seeing and hearing nothing, Emory gave a tortch and his rope to Alton, tieing one end to some brush and the other around Alton's waist. He descended into the pit, finding its floor 20 feet down. The earthen chamber was small and roughly round, with a single tunnel leading south.

Finding nothing but the remains of previous habitaion (food scraps, rent clothes, broken gear, and a cold fire pit), Alton moved forward into the tunnel, rope still tied around his waist. After another 20 feet, the tunnel opened up into another, larger chamber. Alton could hear signs of frantic scurrying in the dark ahead, and decided to turn back. As he did, a small, young troglodyte jumped out of the darkness to attach him.

At the same time, above ground, two fat, adult, many-breasted troglodyte mothers tried to sneak up on Emory. He heard them before they could attack, and fired an arrow at one while commanding his owl to harry the other. His arrow struck the troglodyte's chest, felling it immediately. The other closed on Emory, forcing him to shoot at point-blank range while exposing himself to her attacks.

Below, Alton swung blessed warhammer to deflect the young troglodyte's attack, but not before suffering a serious wound by its claws. Slightly wounded itself from Alton's blow, the troglodyte assumed a defensive position, which allowed Alton to withdraw and climb back up the hole. He surfaced to find the second troglodyte moether in melee with Emory, and he immediately attacked with his warhammer. An arrow from Emory, the aid of his owl, and Alton's heavy hammer all contributed to the demise of the second troglodyte, but not before she let out shrieking howl that was quickly answered by more howls from down in the pit.

Within moments of the second troglodyte mother's corpse hitting the ground, three young troglodytes sprung up from the pit into the clearing, ready to attack. Emory reflexively fired at the closest, putting an arrow into its throat and taking it out of the fight. Alton smashed a second squarely in the head, crushing its skull and killing it instantly. The third, fearing these potent foes, clawed its way over Emory and fled back into the pit.

The ophans took a few moments to recover, and Alton took his only potion to heal his wounds. Unsure whether they should go back into the hole or give up on the eggs, Alton prayed to Helm, saying "Lord of the Watchful Eye, please guide our course ..." His prayer answered, filled with the conviction to continue, the pair descended together, ready for however many of the lizard-folk remained. 

Emory skirted the shadows ahead and determined that there were no more than 4 or 5 troglodytes left. Alton entered the chamber, filling the larger chamber with torchlight, and they saw that there was a single troglodyte mother, much larger than the other two, gaurding two young and three eggs in a nest. Emory tried to scare them off the eggs with a yell, but she responded in kind with an ear-piercing scream. The ranger then raised his bow, and at this, she charged.

The battle was over quickly, with two shots from Emory and two deft blows from Anton, but she dealt a significant wound to Anton before dying. The young, losing their mother simply cowered and tried to stay as far from the intruders as possible. Anton wrangled and bound them, though he suffered their claws and a banged head while doing so. Emory packed the ostrich-sized eggs for transfer. The adventurers climbed out of the hole and started for Waterdeep.

Anton had to beat the young troglodytes severely to keep them cooperative, but eventually the pair reached the City of Splendors and made camp a well outside the city's walls. Anton stayed with the troglodytes while Emory headed to the Dripping Dagger to ask about selling monsters, hoping a path would lead to Feldyn.

He approached the barkeeper, which happened to be the inn's owner, Filiare. Filiare explained that the easiest place to sell the eggs would be The Old Monster Shop, where Feldyn does business. He warned Emory not to trust Feldyn, and not to take his first offer. He didn't seem to care much for Feldyn, though he did call the monster-peddler "a respectable businessman."

Emory then inquired about other work being offered, and Filiare introduced him to a man sitting alone at the bar, an off-duty city watchman named Garrison. Garrison explained he was hiring a crew to handle some brigands down on the coast that had bounties of 50 gold dragons each. The crew would split the bounty evenly. Garrison told Emory to come back the next night if he was interested in joining, and that they'd leave that next morning for the coast.

Emory returned to camp to fetch Alton, the eggs, and the young troglodytes to take them to Feldyn. The pair had some trouble at the city's gates; the gatemen did not want to let two men unknown to the city walk the streets with bound troglodytes, even if they were young. But with assurances that they'd head to straight to Feldyn's, the gatemen let the orphans through. They made their way to The Old Monster Shop.

A line coming out through shop's door into the Jar (a closed-off alleyway of shops requiring more discretion) made it clear that Feldyn's business was good. In line were a man with a bound goblin, a woman with a snake twice the length of man's height, and another man with a cage full of small, furry creatures neither Emory or Alton had seen. After some time, the they were called in to seel Feldyn.

### Notes
- Emory made 1 use of his adventuring gear for repo and a torch to give to Alton to descend into the pit
- Emory killed a troglodyte mother
- Emory and Alton killed a troglodyte mother together
- Emory killed a young troglodyte on his own
- Alton killed a young troglodyte on his own
- Alton used his healing potion
- Emory marked 3 XP
- Alton marked 3 XP
- Emory bought a drink at the Dripping Dagger
- Emory met Filiare, the Dripping Dagger's owner, who happened to be tending bar
- Emory met Garrison, a man looking to hire swords to clear out some brigands in a cave down on the coast
